The greatness of individuals can be decided only by those who live after them, not by their contemporaries.

Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the statement and explain your reasoning for the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, you should consider ways in which the statement might or might not hold true and explain how these considerations shape your position.

You are known as a great individual when the work you do, be it whichever field, speaks for itself. Great individuals define the era of the field they belong to by their outstanding contribution to it. Hence, I disagree with the statement that 'The greatness of individuals can be decided only by those who live after them, not by their contemporaries.' 

In today's world, there are many ways to evaluate the greatness of the contribution of an individual to a particular field likes publications, patents, etc. In other fields, for example the field of politics, the boldness to take decisions which the previous leaders haven't been able to, abiding by the agendas of his manifestos, and being able to cause the development of the particular region can be the criteria based on which the greatness of a person can be evaluated. In the field of sports, there are the criteria of records broken and trophies earned which can be used to evaluate the greatness of the individual in the sport. If the contemporaries are knowledgeable enough, which is definitely the case in today's modern era, a person's greatness can well be defined by them. An example of this would be the lawn tennis legend Mr. Roger Federer. Fedrerer has been revered as one of the best players to have ever played the game by one and all. Every single player, be it his opponent, recognizes Federer's greatness and his contribution to the game. Another example, would be Bill Gates, the person behind the leaps of the modern day technology. His contribution to the field of technology is accpeted by one and all. Competent contemporaries are therefore the best choices in order to decide the greatness of an individual.

There have been instances when the contemporaries were either blinded by their religious beliefs or were simply not competent enough to understand the treu nature of the contribution of a certain individual to the field. An example of this would be the famous scientist Copernicus. He made the discovery that the Earth revolves around the sun and not the other way round. His contemporaries ridiculed him and he had to pay the price for his scientific discovery with his life. It was only much later that Copernicus received his due credit. But these sole instances from history cannot be compared to the scenario in today's world. Today, the society has evolved and people are more open to a change than they ever were. Every new discovery is logical and scientifically scrutinized before being put out there for the general masses. And this actually places the contemporaries in the best position to decide the greatness of an individual.

One may argue that the contemporaries would have their judgements clouded because of factors like jealousy and competitiveness. While this might be the case, a professional is always able to put these things aside. There have been many examples of contemporaries acknowledging the greatness of other individuals. Thus, it can be concluded that the greatness of individuals can most certainly be decided by their contemporaries.