Some people believe that success in creative fields, such as painting, fiction writing, and
filmmaking, primarily requires hard work and perseverance. Others believe that such
success mainly requires innate talents that cannot be learned.

Write a response in which you discuss which view more closely aligns with your own
position and explain your reasoning for the position you take. In developing and
supporting your position, you should address both of the views presented.

Your Answer
Creativity is an important attribute that every single person possesses, irrespective of what walks of life they are a part of. Creativity is a very basic human ability like any other. And while many say that some people are born creative, it isn't necessary that achieving success is something someone is born with. You are the only person responsible for writing your own destiny and hence, I am believe that success in creative fields, such as painting, fiction writing and filmmaking, primarily requires hard work and perseverance.

Without hardwork, every talent that one possesses is a waste. A person, who believes that he will succeed, in any field, solely based on his talent is truly mistaken. Talent can only take one so far. It's one's ability to be able to persevere, that makes one shine and puts one in a league of their own. An example would this would be the Indian cricketers Sachin Tendulkar and Vinod Kambli. Vinod and Sachin were both equally talented players. Both were hailed as the rising stars of Indian cricket in their youth, the golden boys. Both got their Indian national cricket team debut very early in their cricketing careers. But as fate would have it, Vinod Kambli let all the fame get to him and lost sight of what he was supposed to do. Whereas Sachin would always be the first to person on the training ground and the last to leave. He would always learn from his mistakes and make sure he adapted to the ever-evolving game of cricket. The results can be seen in the history books. Vinod remained as the golden boy who never made it big and Sachin went on to become the greatest player to have ever played the game in the entire history of the game. Another example would be successful Indian filmmaker Yash Chopra. He wasn't born with any silver spoon in his mouth.He worked hard to create a name for himself and defied all the odds to achieve what he has. Being good at something and being succesful doing it are two different things and Yash Chopra is a true testament to this statement. This proves that there is no way other than hard work to achieve success in any field and not just creative fields.

There are many people who weren't as blessed as others to be born with innate talents. But in today's world, there are amazing painting academies, filmmaking colleges and agencies which help such aspiring artists, who want to make it big. These hard workers learn everything there is to learn and never give up. One such example would be the famous author JK Rowling. She had her original Harry Potter scripts rejected by many publishers. But she didn't give up. She persevered hard because she had faith in her hard work. And it finally paid off. To imagine that one of the world's best fiction novels would've never been written, had JK Rowling thought that she didn't have innate talents and would've given up based on the inital rejections, is itself a proof to the fact the hardwork helps you achieve success despite of whatever problems one is facing. Because, 'where there is a will, there is a way'.

It is possible that some people would say that innate talents are also important to achieve success in creative fields and it is partially correct. Being born with talent is always helpful for any artist, but it definitely isnt the main driving force behind achieving success in these fields. It would be a mistake to believe that one cannot succeed in a particular creative field because one isn't as talented as the others. It is one's will to succeed which is the main driving force behind achieving success in any field you choose and there are many greats in each of these fields who are a testament to that.