Some people believe that it is helpful to view a challenging situation as an opportunity for
personal growth. Others believe that reimagining challenging situations this way occupies
too much of the focus one needs to face challenges effectively.

Write a response in which you discuss which view more closely aligns with your own
position and explain your reasoning for the position you take. In developing and
supporting your position, you should address both of the views presented.

Your Answer
Optimism is the ray of light at the end of tunnel. It is the slimmer of hope that keeps one going in dark and difficult situations. Every person should be proud of himself, no matter what. Keeping this in mind, I strongly believe that it is necessary to view each and every challenging situation as an opportunity for personal growth.

Life will always present various challenging sitatuions to every single person as long as they are alive. We don't get to choose whether or not they have to face a challenging situation. But we should always be ready to face every challenge life throws in our way if we want to move ahead in life. And the best way to do that is to open your arms and embrace the challenge rather than running away from it. Face it with the extreme self belief. Be positive about yourself and your capabilites. An example for this would be Indian shooter, Deepa Malik, who won the silver medal at the 2016 paralympics. She was faced with the most challneging situation in her life when she lost her shooting arm in an accident. She could've been dejected and could've given up. But instead, she chose to prepare for the Paralympics. She told a reporter in an interview post her winning performance that she saw the challenge as a stepping stone to success. She saw the opportunity and seized it. She taught herself to shoot with her weaker hand, her only hand. And she never gave up and with her persistence and positivity, she achieved a feet which no one had achieved before for her country. Deepa is the living example of how challenges an be turned into opportunities and can be used for personal growth.

There are many people out there who have faced numerous challenges over their entire life and persisted hard enough to overcome it only because they took every challenge as an incremental stepin the huge ladder which led to success. An example would be revered Indian actor, Anupam Kher. Mr. Kher was a very bright student in high school and arts college, but the sudden demise of his father due to a huge debt led to his dreams of pursuing a career in the film industry come crashing down. He ws forced to take up a simple job in order to make ends meet. All these hardships made him a tough man. He would do side roles in movies and eventually got his first break as a lead actor at the age of 40. But as fate would have it, the movie flopped. But he never gave up. He took the failure in his stride, learning from every mistake, growing with every challenge and moved ahead, more positive than ever. He eventually landed some legendary movies in Bollywood and now has his presence overseas too as an actor on a NBC drama series. Mr. Kher's attitude of seeing the positive side in every situation and treating every obstacles as an opportunity is a testament to the fact everyone should view a challenging situation as an opportunity.

Opportunity knocks on every person's door. Sometimes even dressed as a challenge. Every person has to be ready to recognize it and sieze it. Learning from every mistake and improving yourself is the key to success. Every challenge is life's way of teaching you new lessons and making sure that you are ready for what's meant for you. One should use these challenges for their personal growth and that is how one can overcome these challenges. Thus, reimagining challenges as opportunities is the most effective way of tackling these challenges and moving forward in life.