A nation should require all of its students to study the same national curriculum until they enter college.

Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the recommendation and explain your reasoning for the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, describe specific circumstances in which adopting the recommendation would or would not be advantageous and explain how those examples shape your position.

Response 1 -
A nation's future is determined by the education of its youth. Keeping this in mind, providing quality education for the youth of the nation should be one of the top priorities of every nation. An educated youth is the most important for the nation to progress. Considering that high school education is the most important for the youth of any nation, every student should have basic and sufficient knowledge. And hence, I strongly agree that a nation should require all of its students to study the same national curriculum until they enter the college.

Having the same national curriculum makes it easier for the education ministries to conduct common entarnce examinations all over the country for admissions to colleges. Otherwise, it becomes very difficult for both, the students and the education ministries, to conduct examinations. For example in India, there are many different states and every state has its own state board responsible for admissions to the local colleges. Then there is a national board which is responsible for admissions to the colleges funded by the central government and then there are private colleges which have their own independent examinations. This makes it very inconvenient for the students to study for all the different examinations as they have to refer to different curriculums for each examination. Having a national curriculum would solve that issue. 

Another advantage of having a common national curriculum would be that every student gets exposure to each and every field. This in turn leads to students making an informed choice while selecting their majors instead of opting for the first thing they like, which might turn out to be a bad decision in hindsight. For example, every student is made to take introductory courses in high schools in various fields like history, geography and literature. This can be a measure to check if the student has any predilection towards any of these topics. If after given the freedom of opting for an independent curriculum, some school opts to teach only mathematics and sciences to its students, the student may never learn social studies and hence the decision he/she takes about his/her future may not be well-informed. It is also very important to be aware of the basics of the geography and the history of the country one lives in, knowledge of the current affairs in the world and other general knowledge. Having an uniform curriculum all across the nation would definitely ensure that. 

It is possible that some people may argue that having a very specific curriculum will help to focus the student's ability towards learning only a few things dedicatedly at the cost of others. But it isn't possible for a student to start specializing in a particular field until he/she has explored all the alternatives available. Specializations can be done by students once they are into their colleges, but until then, having a common ground for evaluation and for education is very necessary. Hence, a nation should require all of its students to study the same national curriculum until they enter college.

Response 2 -
As an educator, this topic is quite controversial to me. By having one set curriculum in the entire nation, students would be taught the same material. Students from the rural Texas will study the same thing as students in Brooklyn, NY and suburban Chicago. If they move from state to state, they will have covered the same material and they would be able to participate in class right away. You could also say that all students should have learned the same material, for which they should all be equal and should have the same opportunities. But it is unrealistic. I disagree with a national curriculum because all students are not the same, they have different interests, and this curriculum would not permit teachers to explore and teach to students interests.

First, a curriculum that becomes nation wide is supposed to teach all students the same material and perhaps the same way. All seventh graders will have to solve algebraic equations and then they will all be the same. But students are not the same. All children develop at different rates, they have different abilities. One cannot expect a child from Uptown Manhattan to be doing the same thing as the kids in southern Illinois. The conditions are different, they have different funding and quality of teachers. Parents involvement in their childrens education is different and that would affect what the students learn.

Besides having different abilities, the students have different interests or necesities. In one part of the nation it may be important to learn trigonometry and calculus because it is a high tech area. They use many computers and there might be a big market for careers in that field, but in another part of the country it might be more important to learn about farming and erosion. That the interest would be different. Teachers also need the freedom to teach what the students are interested in. If the kids want to know about the Chicano Movement, they should have the opportunity to learn about it, instead of learning about African American Civil Rights Movement. City kids are interested in different things than kids rural areas, as well as kids from the East Coast and the West Coast.

For these reasons I would have to disagree with a national curriculum. Children are different and they should have the right to learn about things they are interested in. Teachers should have the freedom to teach what he/she thinks is more important or interesting to their students. Teachers should teach their students, not a curriculum.