The following appeared in a letter to the editor of the Balmer Island Gazette.

"On Balmer Island, where mopeds serve as a popular form of transportation, the population increases to 100,000 during the summer months. To reduce the number of accidents involving mopeds and pedestrians, the town council of Balmer Island should limit the number of mopeds rented by the island's moped rental companies from 50 per day to 25 per day during the summer season. By limiting the number of rentals, the town council will attain the 50 percent annual reduction in moped accidents that was achieved last year on the neighboring island of Seaville, when Seaville's town council enforced similar limits on moped rentals."

Write a response in which you discuss what questions would need to be answered in order to decide whether the recommendation is likely to have the predicted result. Be sure to explain how the answers to these questions would help to evaluate the recommendation.

In the letter to the editor of the Balmer Island Gazette, the author concludes that the town council of Balmer Island should limit the number of mopeds rented by the island's moped rental companies from 50 per day to 25 per day during the summer season. The conclusion is inspired from the successful implementation of a similar policy in the neighboring island of Seaville. But the argument makes sweeping conclusions without having enough evidence to make any solid conclusions.

The first question which needs to be answered is if the island of Seaville is, in any way, comparable to the Balmer Island? Is there enough evidence being provided by the author, based on which the town council can implement the same policy in the Balmer Island? It can be possible that the Island of Seaville receives fewer tourists as opposed to the 100,000 people on the Balmer Island during the summer months. It is also possible that there are other modes of transportation which are readily available on the island of Seaville which the people can use whereas there isn't a mention of any such alternate mode of transportation on the Balmer Island. Other factors which haven't been taken into consideration are the quality of roads and the strictness of law enforcement on the two islands. Hence, if any of these above examples are true, then the author's conclusion is significantly weakened.

Another question which needs to be answered is whether the issues of last year can be compared with the issues of this year? The author compares the policy implemented by the island of Seaville last year and suggests implementing that policy this year. Seaville's town council could've come to the conclusion of implementing this particular policy by considering some very different factors and based on completely different circumstances and it might not be appropriate to compare scenarios which are a year apart. If it is indeed the case, then the author's conclusion holds no water.

Also, will reducing the number of mopeds actually reduce the number of accidents caused? It is possible that having lesser mopeds can result in more inconvenience being caused to the tourists and that can result in a decrease of the revenue earned by the town council as many tourists may refuse to return in the following years. It can be possible that a lesser number of mopeds may fail to match the demand of mopeds among the tourists, which may result in increased number of careless pedestrians, causing the number of accidents to actually rise. If this scenario is true, then the author's conclusion is further weakened.

In conclusion, the argument, as it stands, is considerably flawed due to its reliance on several unwarranted assumptions. The author has to make a more cogent argument for his conclusion and present more evidence that can answer these questions. This will be helpful in better evaluating the author's recommendation of limiting the number of mopeds rented during the summer season on the Balmer Island. 