The following is a recommendation from the city manager of Bridge Bay.


“Last year, the number of visits to our local beach in Bridge Bay was 50 percent lower
than the year before. Early last year we ended our contract with Arko Trash Collection, a
company that had serviced local garbage collection for the past twenty years. We switched
at that time to Satellite Waste Corporation, another trash collection company. In nearby
Ocean Harbor, where Arko has continued to provide garbage collection, the beaches are
experiencing record levels of attendance. Meanwhile, in Bridge Bay, complaints about
garbage on our beach have increased this year. Clearly, inadequate garbage collection on
our beach by Satellite has led to the significant drop in visitors. Therefore, in order to
restore visitor numbers to our local beach, we recommend resuming our contract with
Arko as soon as possible.”

Write a response in which you discuss what questions would need to be answered in order
to decide whether the recommendation and the argument on which it is based are
reasonable. Be sure to explain how the answers to these questions would help to evaluate
the recommendation.

Your Answer
In the draft written by the city manager of Bridge Bay, he makes a suggestion of resuming the contract with Arko Trash Collection as soon as possible. He comes to the conclusion that doing this would restore the visitor number to the local beach of Bridge Bay. He cites the fall in levels of attendance as compared to past year and increased complaints about garbage on the beach as basis for his conclusion. But the manager makes sweeping conclusions when there is a clear lack of evidence to make a conclusion.

First question that needs to be answered is whether the fall in the number of visitors to the beach can be directly linked to the change of trash collection company. It is possible that there might be other reasons for the fall in the number of visitors. It is possible that the quality of recreational activities offered at the local beach of Bridge Bay has deteriorated over the past year and no maintenance has been done, while a neighboring beach has much better and cheaper recreational activities. It is also possible that a particular restaurant which used to attract a lot of visitors has moved to some other location, resulting in the decrease of number of visitors. If any of these is true, then no direct correlation can be drawn between the change of contracts of the garbage companies and the decrese in number of visitors and this cannot be used as a basis to support the recommendation made by the city manager.

Another question that needs to be answered is whether a fair comparison can be drawn between the Ocean Harbor beach and the local beach of Bridge Bay. It is possible that the Ocean Harbor is a small beach and the record levels of attendance of the Ocean Harbor bridge are, in absolute terms, still lower than the visitors of the local beach. It is also possible that the record level of attendances at the Ocean Harbor have got nothing to do with Arko's ability of collecting waste. The high level of attendances can be because of the opening of a new casino just near the beach, and people just happen to go to the beach just because it is near the casino. If this scenario is true, the manager's conclusion is considerably weakened.

The third question that needs to be answered is that whether the amount of garbage on the beach is actually representative of the quality of cleaning of these companies, or if the numbers can be influenced by some external factors too. It is possible that there is more garbage on the Ocean Harbor beach too, just that the people there haven't made complaints about it. If that is not the case and the Ocean Harbor beach is indeed very clean, it can be due to the high fines imposed by the city council in that area, and not because of Arko's excellence in garbage collection. If the same strict policies are excercised on the local beach in Bridge Bay too, then it is possible that the garbage levels go down there too. It can actually be the case that Satellite Waste corporation are actually putting in more time and resources to clean up the beaches as compared to Arko Trash Collection, but their efforts are blinded because of the irresponsible public of the locality who keep on disposing garbage on the local beach of Bridge Bay. If any of these are true, the manager's argument holds no water.

In conclusion, the argument, as it stands, is considerably flawed due to its reliance on unwarranted assumptions. The recommendation may actually result in increase in the number of people visiting the local beach of Bridge Bay, but the manager's argument for that is certainly not cogent. If the manager provides further evidence,which answer the above questions, it will be better to evaluate his recommendation of resuming the contract with Arko Trash Collection.