The following appeared in a letter from a homeowner to a friend.

"Of the two leading real estate firms in our town — Adams Realty and Fitch Realty — Adams Realty is clearly superior. Adams has 40 real estate agents; in contrast, Fitch has 25, many of whom work only part-time. Moreover, Adams' revenue last year was twice as high as that of Fitch and included home sales that averaged $168,000, compared to Fitch's $144,000. Homes listed with Adams sell faster as well: ten years ago I listed my home with Fitch, and it took more than four months to sell; last year, when I sold another home, I listed it with Adams, and it took only one month. Thus, if you want to sell your home quickly and at a good price, you should use Adams Realty."

Write a response in which you examine the stated and/or unstated assumptions of the argument. Be sure to explain how the argument depends on these assumptions and what the implications are for the argument if the assumptions prove unwarranted.

In the letter to his friend, the homeowner asserts that if one has to sell their home quickly and at a good price, among the two real estate firms in their town, Adams Realty is clearly superior. He comes to this conclusion based on the number of real estate agents, annual revenue of both the real estate firms and the time it requires for the house to be sold after being listed. But, the argument makes sweeping conclusions even when there is a lack of evidence to come to any solid conclusions.

First of all, the homeowner makes the assumption that having more real estate agent can lead to one real estate firm being better than the another. It is not necessary that this theory is true. It is more important to look at the efficiency of these agents and not at the number of agents. If Fitch Realty's agents, even after being lesser in number, are more efficient, then the homeowner's assertion is weakened.

Next, the homeowner also makes the assumptions that averaging more in annual home sales directly implies that Adams realty will be able to sell each home on their listing at a good price which is not necessarily true. The average sales depend directly on total number of houses sold. It is possible that Fitch Realty sold more number of houses over the past annual year which resulted in the average going down a bit but it still has number of houses sold in the higher amount category as compared to Adams Realty. It is also possible that Adams Realty was able to secure some deals with very high home sales and since averages are very susceptible to outlier amounts, Adams Realty has higher average sales over the past annual year as compared to Fitch Realty. If any of the above scenarios are true, then the assertion made by the homeowner holds no water.

Also, the homeowner makes another assumption. He assumes that the real estate market from ten years ago can be compared with the real estate market of last year. It is possible that Fitch Realty has improved a lot in the past 10 years and now with their upgraded systems, they actually make sales faster than Adams Realty. The demand in the market can change a lot over 10 years and hence it may be possible that drawing comparison between these two scenarios which are 9 years apart may yield false results. If any of these examples hold merit, it challenges the homeowner's assertion that Adams Realty is able to sell the listed homes quicker than Fitch Realty.

In conclusion, the argument, as it stands, is flawed. It will be better if the homeowner can provide more details and statistics, in the form of a much more detailed research, about the assumptions that he makes. That will be very helpful to evaluate the assumptions that he makes, which as of now stand unwarranted.